Well, here's a question, do you see people as Jehovah's
system?
Now, that's a very practical question that comes up when we
read in the scriptures that they describe Noah as being
faultless among his contemporaries.
Now, we all know that Noah was an imperfect human.
So why would the Bible make the comment that Noah was
faultless?
Well, if you go to the insight volume two and page
a 604 under the article Perfection, there's a very, very
interesting discussion of this.
And I want to read some of it to you.
It says when talking about men like Noah and Job and others,
it says it is clear that such men were faultless and
blameless in the sense of measuring up fully to God's
requirements for them, requirements that took into account
their imperfection and disability.
Now, even as a potter, this is the illustration the
insight book uses, even as a potter would not expect
the same quality when molding a vase from common clay as
he would when forming one from special refined clay.
So Jehovah's requirements take into consideration the
weakness of imperfect humans, though committing errors
and wrongs because of their fleshly imperfection, such
faithful men nevertheless manifested a complete heart
toward Jehovah.
Thus, within the limits possible for them to attain,
their devotion was complete, sound, satisfying the divine
requirements in their case.
Since God, the judge was pleased with their worship, no human
or spirit creature could rightly find fault with them.
Isn't that an interesting quote from the insight volume?
The June 1st 2008 watch tower just adds one more thought.
It says notice that the Bible says he was faultless among,
not from the viewpoint of his contemporaries.
In other words, he was faultless in the eyes of God.
But to the people of the pre-flood world,
Noah was odd.
Well, that's an interesting comment, isn't it?
Well, maybe even the members of Noah's family might have
had some interesting comments about Noah.
Maybe that's some of the questions, Sister Denise
Akri mentioned, some questions her Bible student would
like to ask.
Maybe we'd like to ask some questions like that about Noah.
Did he have some annoying habits?
Did he snore?
Noah was imperfect, right?
But from Jehovah's standpoint, he was faultless.
He did everything that Jehovah expected him to do
given his imperfection.
Well, that highlights a very important truth,
which is that there is a difference
between the way that Jehovah sees people
and the way that we see people.
But it should always be our desire to try
and see people the way that Jehovah can see them.
When I think of some examples, let's start with King David.
Now, if you had to describe David's life course,
what would you say?
Well, would you begin by describing some of the major sins
that David had committed during his life?
See, maybe that's our human tendency
to right away think of the failure that we know about David.
But what does First Kings chapter 15 say?
Let's read this together.
First Kings chapter 15 and verse five,
it says, for David did what was right in the eyes of Jehovah
and he did not turn aside from anything
that he had commanded him all the days of his life,
except in the matter of your eye of the Hittite.
Now, isn't that an interesting description of David?
Probably for us, that's a pretty big accept, isn't it?
And yet, how did Jehovah see David?
How did he view him?
Well, again, let's look at First Kings chapter 11 and verse four.
It says, in Solomon's old age,
his wives inclined his heart to follow other gods
and his heart, no, no, this and his heart
was not complete with Jehovah, his God,
like the heart of David, his father.
So from the standpoint of Jehovah,
David had a complete heart.
Now, why was that?
Why was it that Jehovah could see David
as having a complete heart?
Inside volume one, page 1211
under the article on integrity that says this,
David committed several serious wrongs,
but he nevertheless walked with integrity of heart
for he accepted, reproof and corrected his way.
He thereby proved that his heart
still retained genuine love for Jehovah God.
Well, whether we're speaking about Noah
or we're speaking about David,
Jehovah could see good in these men.
He could view Noah as faultless and David
as having a complete heart.
When how do we view others?
We know how Jehovah sees people,
but how do we view them?
Well, the human tendency is always to look for flaws
and imperfections and then to focus on these.
Well, now let me show you this.
What do you see here?
One of those two ways you could answer,
you could say a piece of paper
or you could say a spot.
When our human tendency would be to answer, I see a spot.
And that's the way we tend to look at other people.
We tend to immediately identify their weaknesses
and by focusing on those spots or blemishes,
what happens?
Well, often they tend to get bigger and bigger and bigger
so that now instead of seeing the good things
about our brothers, we become completely focused
on their negative qualities.
Yet if we were to actually speak to the individual involved,
the actual person, maybe how do they see themselves?
Well, maybe it's sort of like this.
You see, they see themselves as all black
with just that one, one small spot,
maybe just one small bright spot in their life.
And by focusing constantly on negatives and imperfections,
what's the effect?
Well, we could even close out that one bright spot.
Brothers, what's the solution?
We have to learn to see people
the way Jehovah sees them.
We have to learn from our Heavenly Father
and work very, very hard to be able to see them as He does.
That means we have to look for the good.
We have to emphasize the good.
And if we don't see it initially or immediately,
then we have to work hard to get to know our brothers better
so that we can identify clearly
their beautiful qualities.
So we come to see them the way Jehovah does.
What, when I served in the Philippines,
I was deeply moved by the experience
of a brother named Miguel, who while preaching in a prison,
met a man named Esmeraldo who had killed Miguel's own grandson.
Now, Miguel was afraid when he met Esmeraldo in the prison
that he would try to kill him.
So immediately when Esmeraldo approached him,
Miguel began to explain to him truths from the Bible.
Well, Esmeraldo was so moved by what he heard
that he admitted that he had committed the murder
and he apologized to Miguel for doing so.
Another brother was watching this scene from a distance
and he encouraged Miguel to start a Bible study with Esmeraldo.
The brother had no idea of the connection
between the two men.
Well, even so, Miguel did agree to study the Bible
with Esmeraldo and on April 1, 2010,
Esmeraldo was baptized as our Christian brother.
Can you imagine, can you imagine how much effort
it would have taken for Miguel to be able to see Esmeraldo
in the way that Jehovah would come to see him,
but he was willing to make the effort?
Although it will never ever be easy,
if we can learn to see others in the way that Jehovah sees them,
we'll focus on their good qualities,
we'll be eager to help them to improve
and we may even have the joy of being able to serve
our wonderful God, Jehovah forever along with them.